h1. Opentok

OpenTok is a free set of APIs from TokBox that enables websites to weave live group video communication into their online experience. With OpenTok you have the freedom and flexibility to create the most engaging web experience for your users. OpenTok is currently available as a JavaScript and ActionScript 3.0 library. Check out http://www.tokbox.com/ and http://www.tokbox.com/opentok/tools/js/gettingstarted for more information.

This is the official Opentok rubygem.

h2. Installation

To install using bundler, add Opentok to you @gemfile@ and run `bundle install`:

<pre>
gem 'opentok'
</pre>

To install as a regular gem just type `gem install opentok`

h2. How it works

h3. API-key and secret

Request your api-key and secret at http://www.tokbox.com/opentok/tools/js/apikey. You can use the staging environment for testing. The gem uses this staging environment by default.

h3. Create a session

With the following code, you can generate a valid @session_id@.
<pre>
@api_key = 0                # should be a number
@api_secret = ''            # should be a string
@location = 'localhost'     # give Opentok a hint on where you are running your application

@opentok = OpenTok::OpenTokSDK.new @api_key, @api_secret
    
@session_id @opentok.create_session(@host)
</pre>

h3. Create tokens

With the generated session_id, you can start generating tokens for each user.
<pre>
@opentok.generate_token :session_id => "#{@session_id}"
</pre>

Typically you would create one @session_id@ and store it (in e.g. a setting) and share that @session_id@ between all users.