# OpenTok Hello World Ruby

This is a simple demo app that shows how you can use the OpenTok-Ruby-SDK to create Sessions,
generate Tokens with those Sessions, and then pass these values to a JavaScript client that can
connect and conduct a group chat.

## Running the App

First, download the dependencies using [Bundler](http://bundler.io)

```
$ bundler install
```

Next, add your own API Key and API Secret to the environment variables. There are a few ways to do
this but the simplest would be to do it right in your shell.

```
$ export API_KEY=0000000
$ export API_SECRET=abcdef1234567890abcdef01234567890abcdef
```

Finally, start the server using Bundler to handle dependencies

```
$ bundle exec ruby hello_world.rb
```

Visit <http://localhost:4567> in your browser. Open it again in a second window. Smile! You've just
set up a group chat.

## Walkthrough

This demo application uses the [Sinatra web framework](http://www.sinatrarb.com/). It is similar to
many other popular web frameworks, such as [Rails](http://rubyonrails.org/), but more light-weight.
We are only covering the very basics of the framework, but you can learn more by following the links
above.

### Main Controller (hello_world.php)

The first thing done in this file is to require the dependencies we will be using. In this case that
is the Sinatra web framework and most importantly the OpenTok SDK. By running the application with
the `bundle exec` command, we allow Bundler to select the right versions of these gems from the
right place.

```ruby
require 'sinatra/base'
require 'opentok'
```

Next this file performs some basic checks on the environment. If it cannot find the `API_KEY`and
`API_SECRET` environment variables, there is no point in continuing.

The class `HelloWorld` is our application. The first thing it does is to initialize an instance of
OpenTok and also store it using Sinatra's `set` method so it can be accessed in other parts of the
application. At the same time, we also `set` the `api_key` separately so that we can access
it on its own.

```ruby
  set :api_key, ENV['API_KEY']
  set :opentok, OpenTok::OpenTok.new(api_key, ENV['API_SECRET'])
```

Now, lets discuss the Hello World application's functionality. We want to set up a group chat in
a way that client that visits a page will connect to the same OpenTok Session. Then once they are
connected they can Publish a Stream, and Subscribe to all the other streams in the Session. So we
really just need one Session object, and it needs to be accessible every time a require is made. The
next line of our application simply calls the `OpenTok` instance's `create_session` method and once
again uses `set` to store it.

```ruby
  set :session, opentok.create_session
```

We only need one page, so we create one route handler for any HTTP GET requests to trigger.

```ruby
  get '\' do
    # ...
  end
```

Next inside the route handler, we grab a reference to those previously `set` values that we will
need: the `session` and `opentok` instances from the `settings` object.

```ruby
    session = settings.session
    opentok = settings.opentok
```

Now all we have to do is serve a page with the three values the client will need to connect to the
session: `api_key`, `session_id`, and `token`. Lets call our `erb` helper that will pick up
a template called `index.erb` from the `views/` directory in our application and pass in some local
variables for it to print using the `:locals` hash. The `api_key` value is again available on the
`settings` object, the `session_id` is just the `session` instance we already have (NOTE: erb will
call `session.to_s` when it tries to print its value, which just prints the `session_id` property of
the object), and lastly the `token` is generated by calling the `generate_token` method on `opentok`
and passing in the `session`. Another important point to note here is that unlike the `session`
which is around for the entire application's life, the `token` is freshly generated for each request.
That is because a Token is a piece of information that encodes a specific client's permissions in
a certain Session, so its best to keep them unique.

```ruby
    erb :index, :locals => {
      :api_key => settings.api_key,
      :session_id => session,
      :token => opentok.generate_token(session)
    }
```

### Main Template (views/index.rb)

This file simply sets up the HTML page for the JavaScript application to run, imports the
JavaScript library, and passes the values created by the server into the JavaScript application
inside `public/js/helloworld.js`

### JavaScript Applicaton (public/js/helloworld.js)

The group chat is mostly implemented in this file. At a high level, we connect to the given
Session, publish a stream from our webcam, and listen for new streams from other clients to
subscribe to.

For more details, read the comments in the file or go to the
[JavaScript Client Library](http://tokbox.com/opentok/libraries/client/js/) for a full reference.
